# Moment 3 DT207G Part 1

This project makes up the first part of my contribution for Moment 3 - NoSQL-DATABASER in the course Backend-baserad webbutveckling (DT207G) at Mittuniversitetet, Sundsvall. 

This is a simple REST API for managing work experience data built with Node.js, Express, MongoDB Atlas, and Mongoose. 

## Installation

This API uses MongoDB Atlas for remote database storage. To install, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository: git clone https://github.com/gustafsson96/moment3dt207g.git
2. Navigate into the project folder: cd your-project-folder-name
3. Ensure that Node.js is installed. Install necessary dependencies by running: npm install.
4. Create a .env file and add in your database credentials like this:
* MONGODB_URI=your-mongodb-connection-string
* PORT=3000
5. Start the server by running: npm run dev 


## Database

### Database Technology
This API uses a NoSQL MongoDB database and is hosted on MongoDB Atlas. 

### Database Structure
The API manages a WorkExperience collection with the following fields, stored in BSON format in MongoDB but returned in JSON format via the API. 

| Field Name     | Data Type            | Description                   | Required |
|-----------------|---------------------|-------------------------------|----------|
| company         | String              | Name of the company           | Yes      |
| job_title       | String              | Title of the job              | Yes      | 
| start_date      | Date                | Employment start date         | Yes      | 
| end_date        | Date                | Employment end date (if any)  | No       | 

Example of a stored document in the work_experience collection as appeard in MongoDB Atlas: 
{ <br>
    _id: ObjectId('680f4f31d0b20923c73e380c')
    company: "Company name"<br>
    job_title: "Job title name"<br>
    start_date: 2023-01-10T00:00:00.000+00:00<br>
    end_date: 2025-01-10T00:00:00.000+00:00<br>
    __v: 0
    <br>
  }

Notes: 
* _id is generated by MongoDB automatically
* __v is added by Mongoose and represents the version of the document

## API Endpoints

| Method     | End Point   | Description  |
|------------|-------------|---------|
| GET        | /work_experience      | Get all work experiences|
| POST       | /work_experience      | Add a new work experience|
| PUT        | /work_experience/:id  | Update a work experience by id|
| DELETE     | /work_experience/:id  | Delete a work experience by id|

Sending and receiving data from the API should look like the following JSON example:

{ <br>
    "company": "Company name",<br>
    "job_title": "Job title name,<br>
    "start_date": "2023-01-10",<br>
    "end_date": "2025-01-10",<br>
    <br>
  }

Notes: 
* Company, job_title and start_date are required.
* end_date is optional (if adding a current job it can be left empty)





